>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
let's get to the tough stuff.
Let's look at item number
five in the readme,
which says, define an addn utility.
Addn is supposed to receive
a list of functions,
which I'll call fns,
it receives a list of functions.
And it needs to add all of
the values that are represented by
all of those functions together and
return us a final result.
So before I even write it,
it should look this.
We should be able to call addn and
we should be able to say something
like constant of three and
constant of seven and five and nine.
And that's four different functions and
let's throw one more in there.
Let's throw a constant of 11 and
if I'm doing my math correctly
that should end up giving us 35.
Okay?
So that's the thing that
we want to produce.
We wanna be able to pass in any number of
functions that are wrapped around values
and have it add all of those together.
Remember, in the setup to this exercise,
I pointed out that if you take the eager
approach, which is the call add two
with two of these functions, and
then immediately you get a number.
Well now you have a number but
you still have a bunch of functions.
And a number and a function are not
something that can work together.
They are not of the same sort.
But if we were to take the approach
of deferring that addition
by wrapping everything in functions, well,
then everything stays at the function
level and they all work together better.
I'm gonna implement addn
three different times.
The first time I'm gonna implement it, I'm
gonna do it with an iterative approach.
Then we'll try the recursive, and
then we'll try the list operator approach.
All right, so,
what is my strategy gonna be?
Well, let me consider
sort of a base condition.
You remember when we talked about
recursion earlier in the course,
we talked about base conditions.
And even though this isn't
a recursive solution,
we still basically want to ask, how do I
know when my iteration needs to finish?
Well, if my fns dot length
is greater than two,
I'll just do a placeholder here.
If fns dot length is greater than two
then I know I need to do more work.
But if addn is passed only two functions,
and
we're just gonna assume for our purposes
that we don't pass in any fewer than two.
But if it's been passed two functions,
then we're already sort
of done with the work.
So all we really need to do is call
the add to utility with fns of zero and
fns of one.
That's our base condition, right?
We only need to do extra work if
there are more functions in the list.
So I'm gonna turn this from being an if
statement into being a while statement.
I'm gonna iterate until I get my
fns array down to a length of two.
And I'm going to be
modifying this fns array so
immediately you should have
a red flag that pops up.
We definitely want to make a copy
of the fns array rather than,
I'm sorry,
I forgot that we need to be gathering.
If we're passing them separately,
we need to be gathering into an array.
So we definitely wanna
make a copy of an array.
Although in this particular case, the fns
array, since it was gathered for us,
it's not referenced to anywhere else.
So it's probably okay for us to modify.
But generally,
you wanna make a copy of something and
not modify something unless it's
something that you actually own.
Okay, so let's modify our array.
Each time we iterate through,
we want to reduce the array length by one.
The way we're gonna do that is to take
the first two elements in the array,
which are gonna be functions, and
we're gonna make a new function that
wraps around both of those functions.
So I'm gonna basically try to pull off
the first two elements of the array.
Remember, every time I iterate, I'm gonna
have a new array that I'm looking at.
I'm gonna pull off the first
two elements of the array and
I'm gonna use an array
D structure to do that.
I'm gonna say let and
then we'll have fn0 and
fn1 will be the first two elements in that
array and then I'll gather everything else
up into a rest argument and
I will destructure the fns array.
So I'm simply saying, give me a variable
that points to the first one,
a variable that points to the second one,
and
then gather everything else up into
a secondary array called rest.
Now that I have fns of zero and
fns of one, those two functions can be
wrapped in a function and that function
can be inserted back into the fns list.
So what I'm gonna do is redefine
fns to point at a function here,
which we'll define in just a moment, and
everything that's in the rest array.
So we'll spread out whatever's
left in the rest array.
>> Kyle Simpson: What is
this function going to do?
Well, we're trying to defer the add2 work,
rather than doing the add2 work now,
we want to defer the add2 work.
So this function just simply needs
to say return add2 with fns of zero and
fns of one.
>> Kyle Simpson: Conceptualize
what's happening here.
We're going to be taking two functions
that have numbers in them and
replacing those two with a single function
that will eventually add them and
has not added them yet but
will eventually add them together, okay?
And that function is now alongside of a
bunch of other single functions that have
numbers in them.
Every time we loop we take two
functions and make them into one and
then we take two more functions and
make them into one,
so the very first function in this
array just gets as a bigger and
bigger and bigger and bigger function
wrapped around function, wrapped around
function until at the very end,
when functions of length is equal to two.
We have a giant function
in the first position and
a singular value function
in the last position.
And we pass both of those
into the add utility.
That big function, which will be
in the position of fns of zero,
it collapses itself, it computes all of
its partial additions by calling add2 and
adding that to add2 and adding that to
add2 and it gives us back the number.
And that gets added to
whatever is in fns of one.
So let's test this.
If my math was correct, this one should
have produced for us the value 35.
So let's test and see how it works.
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH], of course, I get
back this add, I need to call add2, right?
Because that's the utility we're using.
And there we have the 35.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me make
sure I fix that before I forget.
I used the wrong function.
I wanna call add2, not add.
Okay, any questions about
the iterative approach that I took?
Do you see why I was talking
about the hint in the setup for
our exercise that if you defer
the work it makes things a lot easier?
By making that into a function
that we'll do the add2 later,
we keep everything at the function level
and functions and functions and functions,
they all just keep working together.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, let's try
a recursive approach to this problem.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm still
gonna be taking in a functions.
This time I'm gonna
actually pass in an array.
That's probably a better way rather
than passing them in individually.
We probably should be passing
them in as actual arrays.
So let's do that.
Let's just change to passing in
a real array rather than passing n
individual values.
And what I know about this functions
array is that it has elements,
again, we know we're always
going to pass at least two,
we don't need to worry about the zero or
the one case here.
So I could just destructure
the argument to the function.
So instead of having an fns, I'm just
going to do a destructuring pattern here
that takes fns of zero,
fns of one and everything else.
And I'm gonna literally use the exact
same strategy as I used in the iterative
approach, which is to say, if rest
length is greater than zero basically.
So if rest dot length is greater
than zero, then what we're gonna
need to do is call recursively and
pass along a new function with fn zero and
fn one in it,
along with everything else in rest.
So we're gonna call addn recursively and
the array that we're gonna
pass in is an array that includes
that function that we just did.
The same function here,
which I'll just copy and paste.
So I don't have to re-type it.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then everything else.
So each time we recurse,
we're reducing our list length by one.
Exactly as we were doing iteratively.
Until we get to the base condition.
Which I could've rewritten and I'm gonna
actually rewrite just for clarity.
I could say if rest dot length equals two,
then I can return add2 with fn zero,
I'm sorry, equals zero,
fn zero and fn one.
In other words if there's no
other functions fn zero and
fn one are our only two then just do that.
Otherwise, do the recursive return.
>> Kyle Simpson: This recursive
return makes a new array,
which has one fewer element in it.
And we keep making that array smaller and
smaller and smaller and
smaller until we get an array of size two.
Which leaves rest with array length
of zero, and then we're done.
Let's try that implementation of addn and
make sure that it still works.
>> Kyle Simpson: Uh-oh, I made a mistake.
Let's see,
where did I make a mistake here?
>> Kyle Simpson: I didn't
put the arrays in here.
That's right.
Forgot, okay, we need to put in
the array and that should work.
There we go.
Okay?
So our addn recursive is
doing the same work and
basically the same strategy
as our iterative approach.
By the way, do you notice anything
about our recursive solution here?
Do you notice anything about how
our function calls are in proper
tail call position?
And these function calls are in proper
tail call position, we're creating a big,
big, big nested hairy mess of functions,
but every single one of them,
the whole tree of functions
are all in tail call position.
Which means, if we were to run this
in a tail call enabled environment,
we would take the benefit of tail call
optimization, of proper tail calls.
Okay.
Let's go back and
let's try it one final time.
This time we're gonna do
it with a list operator.
You can probably guess which one.
>> Kyle Simpson: We want to
move through the list and
we want to combine two values into one.
And then combine two more values into one
and combine two more values into one.
What does that sound like to you?
What list operation does that sound like?
What do we do every time we have
a function of a shape that takes two
values and it ends up producing-
>> Speaker 2: Reduce.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's a reduce, right?
So our fundamental strategy here is
very similar to the previous one.
[LAUGH] Which is, we're going
to do a reduce on the fns array.
Reduce requires two inputs, right?
It requires a reducer and
an initial value.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
we're gonna write a reducer.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then we're gonna need an initial value.
So what should that initial value be here?
We could pass the identity
function in as the initial value.
Whatever gets passed into it
just gets passed right back out.
But there's a trick, as we mentioned
earlier, that the JavaScript array reduce,
the one that's built into JavaScript
arrays, it is a shortcut that if you
don't provide an initial value,
it uses the first value in the list
as the initial value, and it starts
the reduction at the second position.
So that turns out to be really convenient
for us because that's what we want here.
We just want functions to start composing
themselves, combining themselves together.
All right, so what are we gonna call
the two parameters to our reducer?
Canonically they're usually referred to as
acc for accumulator and then v for value.
But I always like to give
them more descriptive names,
so what's a good descriptive name for
this thing that we keep building up?
At the end, as we go along our reduce?
Well, our strategy has been
to take two functions and
make them into a bigger function.
So I'm going to call
this a composed function.
And I'm going to call each
value that comes in the fn.
We could have maybe been even cheeky
about it and called this big fn.
[LAUGH] Because it's a bigger and
bigger and bigger function, right?
Bigger and deeper and deeper function.
We'll leave it at that just
because that's fun and
it's towards the end of
this unit of discussion.
Okay, so, our strategy then is,
we get these two things and
we need to compose them together.
We need to reduce them rather.
So how do we reduce them?
We make a new value,
which is a function, and
that function calls add2
with our two functions.
It's exactly the same function as we did,
and it's basically the same strategy here.
Now what is the end result
of our full reduce?
After we've run through
the entire list and
made functions and functions and functions
into this bigger and bigger function.
What is the end result
of that whole thing?
>> Kyle Simpson: A big function and
we don't want a big function, do we?
We actually want the computed value.
So what do we need to do?
Do a final execution of that function.
To give us the value.
Let's try this final implementation
of addn and see how it works.
>> Kyle Simpson: We should still get 35,
and there we go, there's 35.